>> Kadi Kraman: Now let's talk
about haptics and haptic feedback.
Haptic feedback is something that
you don't have on the web, and
it is the little vibration that your phone
makes in response to certain touches.
So it can be in front of pressing a button
or just typing on your keyboard, etc.
And It's really handy to use haptics
occasionally, but sparingly,
to kind of enhance your app and make it
a little bit more interesting to use.
Let's install the library for haptics, so
we'll install
mbx-expo-install-expo-haptics.
And if we look at the documentation for
this library.
It's a pretty small library and it
basically has functions for impact async,
notification async and selection async,
which are basically presets for
the different kind of vibration
patterns you might want to do.
So I'm gonna open this on my phone
to make sure that it's working.
Can't feel vibrations on a simulator.
Lovely, so I'll do some milk,
some coffee, and tea.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, it's so satisfying
to see these animations on a real phone.
All right, so let's add some haptic
feedback in response to taps.
So we want to do a medium impact
when the user deletes an item.
Success notification so like the strongest
animation as the strongest haptic
feedback when the user completes an item,
and
then the medium impact if they mark
a previously completed item as to do.
>> Kadi Kraman: So in our code,
let's go to the index file and
let's look at when we're
deleting the item.
So let's do just after
the set shopping list,
I think we'll need to import haptics.
So the import for this is import star as
haptics from expo haptics.
>> Kadi Kraman: Right and then in
handleDelete, just before setShoppingList,
we'll do Haptics.ImpactAsync, and
we'll do
Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Medium.
So this will be a medium impact.
Make sure that this works.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
if I delete this, I'm getting
a little haptic feedback, love it.
And now we want to do
a success notification, so
the strongest feedback when
the user completes an item and
then a medium impact when they mark
a previously completed item undone.
So this will be in our toggle function.
So handleToggleComplete.
So it will be in here, in our,
if the item is the item that
we are currently toggling.
Let's add another if statement here.
So if item complete as time stuff,
so if it was previously
completed, let's do
Haptics.ImpactAsync and
Haptic.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Medium.
And else,
let's use a success notification.
So Haptics.NotificationAsync,
Haptics.NotificationFeedback type,
and success.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, so,
>> Kadi Kraman: Now when
we go back,
>> Kadi Kraman: If
we mark this as complete, yeah, it's a.
So you should, when you now toggle
these between completed and not,
you will notice that the success
notification is quite a bit stronger,
so on the iPhone it's
like a double vibration,
whereas the medium impact
is quite a bit lighter.
So let me just try this
on Android as well.
So this is actually one of those things
that it is much more fun if you're
developing on a real device unlike
on a simulator like I am because you
can actually feel it.
So let me plug in my
Android phone,okay and
expert go, scan the QR code.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so again, new phone,
so I don't have anything set up yet.
So let's do coffee.
Let's do some milk, tea, sugar.
All right, so now,
yeah,interestingly Android haptic
feedback by default it feels
much more stronger than iOS.
I don't know if this just this phone but
it's quite interesting.
But yeah so same for Android.
So the success notification is quite
a bit stronger than the medium impact.